[Docs] Combined initial documentation work (#121)
apple/swift-distributed-tracing: Sources/Tracing/Docs.docc/Guides/InstrumentYourLibrary.md

- database drivers (e.g. SQL or MongoDB clients),
- any other library which can emit meaningful span information about tasks it is performing.

The most important libraries to instrument are "edge" libraries, which serve to connect between systems, because
it is them who must inject and extract contextual baggage metadata to enable distributed trace ``Span`` propagation.

Following those, any database or other complex library which may be able to emit useful information about its internals are
also good candidates to being instrumented. Note that libraries may do so optionally, or hide the "verboseness" of such traces
behind options, or only attach information if a ``Span`` is already active etc. Please review your library's documentation to learn
more about it has integrated tracing support.

### Propagating baggage metadata

When crossing boundaries between processes, such as making or receiving an HTTP request, the library responsible for doing so should invoke instrumentation in order to inject or extract the contextual baggage metadata into/from the "carrier" type (such as the `HTTPResponse`) type.

#### Handling outbound requests

> When a library makes an "outgoing" request or message interaction, it should invoke the method of a configured instrument. This will invoke whichever instrument the end-user has configured and allow them to customize what metadata gets to be propagated. This can be depicted by the following diagram:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a library makes an "outgoing" request or message interaction, it should invoke the method of a configured instrument. This will invoke whichever instrument the end-user has configured and allow them to customize what metadata gets to be propagated. This is depicted in the following diagram:
```

func get(url: String) -> HTTPResponse {
  var request = HTTPRequest(url: url)
  
  if let baggage = Baggage.current {
    InstrumentationSystem.instrument.inject(
      baggage,
      into: &request,
      using: HTTPRequestInjector()
    )
  }
  
  try await _send(request)
}
```

As you can see, the library does not know anything about what tracing system or instrumentation is installed, because it cannot know that ahead of time. 

All it has to do is query for the current [task-local](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swift/tasklocal) `Baggage` value, and if one is present, call on the instrumentation system to inject it into the request.

Since neither the tracing API, nor the specific tracer backend are aware of this library's specific `HTTPRequest` type, we also need to implement an ``Injector`` which takes on the responsibility of adding the metadata into the carrier type (which in our case is the `HTTPRequest`). An injector could for example be implemented like this:

```swift
struct HTTPRequestInjector: Injector {
    func inject(_ value: String, forKey key: String, into request: inout HTTPRequest) {
        request.headers.append((key, value))
    }
}
```

> Once the metadata has been injected, the request–including all the additional metadata–is sent over the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the metadata has been injected, the request--including all the additional metadata--is sent over the network.
```

└────
```

This is very similar to what we were doing on the outbound side, but the roles of baggage and request are somewhat reversed: we're extracting values from the carrier into the baggage. The code performing this task could look something like this:

```swift
func handler(request: HTTPRequest) async {
  // we are beginning a new "top level" context - the beginning of a request - 
  // and thus start from a fresh, empty, top-level baggage:
  var baggage = Baggage.topLevel

  // populate the baggage by extracting interesting metadata from the incoming request:
  InstrumentationSystem.instrument.extract(
    request,
    into: &baggage,
    using: HTTPRequestExtractor()
  )

  // ... invoke user code ...
}
```

Similarly to the outbound side, we need to implement an ``Extractor`` because the tracing libraries don't know about our specific HTTP types, yet we need to have them decide for which values to extract keys.

```swift
struct HTTPRequestExtract: Instrumentation.Extractor {
    func extract(key: String, from request: HTTPRequest) -> String? {
        request.headers.first(where: { $0.0 == key })?.1
    }
}
```

> Which exact keys will be asked for depends on the tracer implementation, thus we don't present this part of the implementation in part of the guide. For example, a tracer most likely would look for, and extract, values for keys such as `trace-id` and `span-id`. Note though that the exact semantics and keys used by various tracers differ, which is why we have to leave the decision of what to extract up to tracer implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Which exact keys will be asked for depends on the tracer implementation, thus we don't present this part of the implementation in this guide. For example, a tracer most likely would look for, and extract, values for keys such as `trace-id` and `span-id`. Note though that the exact semantics and keys used by various tracers differ, which is why we have to leave the decision of what to extract up to tracer implementations.
```

Next, your library should "*restore*" the contextual baggage, this is performed by setting the baggage task-local value around calling into user code, like this:

```swift
func handler(request: HTTPRequest) async { 
  // ... 
  InstrumentationSystem.instrument.extract(..., into: &baggage, ...)
  // ... 

  await Baggage.withValue(baggage) {
    await userCode(request)
  }
}
```

This sets the task-local value `Baggage.current` which is used by [swift-log](https://github.com/apple/swift-log), as well as ``TracerProtocol`` APIs in order to later "*pick up*" the baggage and e.g. include it in log statements, or start new trace spans using the information stored in the baggage.

> > Note: The end goal here being that when end-users of your library write `log.info("Hello")` the logger is able to pick up the contextual baggage information and include the e.g. the `trace-id` in such log statement automatically! This way, every log made during the handling of this request would include the `trace-id` automatically, e.g. like this: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: The end goal here being that when end-users of your library write `log.info("Hello")` the logger is able to pick up the contextual baggage information and include e.g. the `trace-id` in such log statement automatically! This way, every log made during the handling of this request would include the `trace-id` automatically, e.g. like this: 
```

```swift
actor MySampleServer { 
  
  var baggage: Baggage = .topLevel
  var userCode: SampleHTTPHandler

  func onHeaders(headers: HTTPHeaders) async {
    await Baggage.withValue(self.baggage) { 
      await userHandler.requestHeaders(headers)
    }
  }
  
  func onBodyPart(part: ByteBuffer) async { 
    await Baggage.withValue(self.baggage) { 
      await userHandler.requestHeaders(headers)
    }
  }
}
```

While this code is very simple for illustration purposes, and it may seem surprising why there are two separate places where we need to call into user-code separately, in practice such situations can happen when using asynchronous network or database libraries which offer their API in terms of callbacks. Always consider if and when to restore baggage such that it makes sense for the end user.

### Starting Trace Spans in Your Library

The above steps are enough if you wanted to provide contextual baggage propagation. It already enables techniques such as **correlation ids** which can be set once, in one system, and then carried through to any downstream services the code makes calls from while the baggage is set.

> Many libraries also have the opportunity to start trace spans themselfes, on behalf of users, in pieces of the library that can provide useful insight in the behavior or the library in production. For example, the `HTTPServer` can start spans as soon as it begins handling HTTP requests, and this way provide a parent span to any spans the user-code would be creating itself. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many libraries also have the opportunity to start trace spans themselves, on behalf of users, in pieces of the library that can provide useful insight in the behavior or the library in production. For example, the `HTTPServer` can start spans as soon as it begins handling HTTP requests, and this way provide a parent span to any spans the user-code would be creating itself. 
```

    }

    // callback, form other task, so we don't have the task-local information here anymore
    func onSomethingHappening(event: SomeEvent) {
        Baggage.withValue(span.baggage) { // restore task-local baggage
            // which allows the baggage to be used by loggers and tracers as usual again: 
            log.info("Event happened: \(event)")

            // since the baggage was restored here, the startSpan will pick it up,
            // and the "event-id" span will be a child of the "request.path" span we started before.
            withSpan("event-\(event.id)") { span in // new child span (child of self.span)
                // ... handle the event ...
            }
        }
    }
}
```

It is also possible to pass the baggage explicitly to `withSpan` or `startSpan`:

```swift
withSpan("event-\(event.id)", baggage: span.baggage) { span in
  // ... 
}
```

which is equivalent to surrounding thr withSpan with a binding of the baggage. The passed baggage (with the values updated by the tracer), will then be set for the duration of the `withSpan` operation, just like usual.

### Global vs. "Stored" Tracers and Instruments

> Tracing functions similarly to swift-log and swift-metrics, in the sense that there is a global "backend" configured at application start, by end-users (developers) of an application. And this is how using `InstrumentationSystem/tracer` gets the "right" tracer at runtime.

Reviewer 2: missing word here?

```suggestion
Tracing functions work similarly to swift-log and swift-metrics, in the sense that there is a global "backend" configured at application start, by end-users (developers) of an application. And this is how using `InstrumentationSystem/tracer` gets the "right" tracer at runtime.
```

Reviewer 3: The way I read it here is that "it functions" is a substitute for "it works" instead of referring to functions as in methods.

Author: Right yeap it's as a verb here.

Reviewer 2: Maybe better to rephrase as "Tracing works" to avoid this potential ambiguity?

Author: Yeah that's fair -- will do 👍
